By Sarah Qureshi (Reuters) - Gold prices rose to a two-week high on Tuesday, supported by post-holiday buying from China and concerns over potential U.S. tariffs on pharmaceutical imports, while investors await the outcome of the Federal Reserve’s policy meeting.  Spot gold was up 2.4% at $3,413.29 an ounce at 1356 ET (17:56 GMT), its highest since April 22, when it hit a record high of $3,500.05/oz. U.S. gold futures settled 3% higher at $3422.8. Markets in top consumer China reopened after the Labour Day holiday, which ran from May 1-5. "The bull market is being driven by China’s latest gold investing surge, plus the ongoing bid from central banks wanting to cut their exposure to U.S. assets, most especially the dollar," said Adrian Ash, BullionVault director of research in a note. [USD/]  The dollar struggled as investors began to grow impatient over hoped-for U.S. trade deals, making greenback-priced gold less expensive for other currency holders. [USD/]  Bullion, a hedge against uncertainty, has hit multiple record highs this year amid market jitters sparked by tariff developments.  U.S. President Donald Trump on Monday signalled that he plans to announce new tariffs on pharmaceutical products over the next two weeks. Earlier on Sunday, Trump had announced 100% tariffs on movies produced overseas.  "We think there is increased participation from speculators in China. In the West, we think that despite the fact that prices are overbought, gold is significantly under-owned. Both of these factors should underscore stronger gold prices," TD Securities commodity strategist Daniel Ghali said. "Prices can trade up to $4,000 an ounce this year." Investors are closely watching the Fed’s upcoming policy decision on Wednesday, with Chair Jerome Powell’s remarks expected to offer clues on the potential timing of interest rate cuts.   Higher interest rates decrease zero-yielding gold’s attractiveness. Spot silver gained 1.9% to $33.1 an ounce, platinum rose about 2.4% to $982.52 and palladium added 3.1% to $971.27.    AI computing powers are changing the stock market. Investing.com's ProPicks AI includes 6 winning stock portfolios chosen by our advanced AI. In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. Which stock will be the next to soar? 