U.Today - Robert Kiyosaki, an expert in financial education, also known for his bestselling book “Rich Dad Poor Dad” and others, has published a tweet about the poor state of the global economy, a market crash he predicted, and how it may hit the Bitcoin price. He said that at the moment, there is a great fear of unemployment spreading “like a virus across the world.”  This crash could also lead to a “New Great Depression,” he added. But he expressed hope that he and his book were wrong and that nothing of the kind would happen. However, Kiyosaki said that crashes can often be “the opportunity of a life time.” He revealed that the great financial crisis of 2008 was such an opportunity for him and many of his friends because “market crashes mean real assets go on sale.” Here he mentioned that the world’s largest cryptocurrency, Bitcoin, may also be affected by the market crash, even though many believe BTC to be a safe haven asset and “digital gold.” Kiyosaki insisted that Bitcoin is a “real asset,” and if it crashes to $300 hypothetically, there would be only two choices – “to cry or celebrate.” This is the food-for-thought he gives to his X audience, asking what they would choose if that happened. Kiyosaki also stressed the vital importance of being prepared for an unfavorable turn of events not only on the markets but in life overall. Being prepared is much more important than panic, he insists: “I wanted you to be prepared for the global panic….that is beginning…. Now.”  He believes that buying half of Bitcoin or even a fraction of it would be enough to make a person rich. Currently, Bitcoin is changing hands at $94,621, according to CoinMarketCap. This article was originally published on U.Today AI computing powers are changing the stock market. Investing.com's ProPicks AI includes 6 winning stock portfolios chosen by our advanced AI. In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. Which stock will be the next to soar? 