Investing.com-- Gold prices slipped over 1% in Asian trading on Tuesday, after reports said U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration would ease the impact of auto tariffs.  Investors cautiously awaited key U.S economic indicators this week, including the Federal Reserve’s preferred inflation gauge -- the PCE price index. As of 02:08 ET (06:08 GMT), spot gold declined 1.1% to $3,308.93 per ounce, while gold futures expiring in June fell 0.8%% to $3,322.55 an ounce. The Trump administration is reportedly due to soften the impact of its automotive tariffs. The Wall Street Journal, which first reported the move, stated that the adjustment means carmakers paying Trump’s auto tariffs will be exempt from additional duties, such as on steel and aluminium. Meanwhile, in an interview with CNBC on Monday, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said many countries have offered "very good" tariff proposals to the U.S. He also stated that the U.S. government is in contact with China and that it is up to Beijing to de-escalate the situation. These developments soothed some fears around rising U.S.-China trade tensions. Gold, which recently reached record highs, thrives in periods of economic uncertainty, geopolitical tensions, and rising inflation, as investors seek safe-haven assets to protect their wealth. Among other precious metals, silver futures fell 0.4% to $32.862 an ounce, while platinum futures were unchanged at $993.20 an ounce. The JOLTS job openings report for March will be released later on Tuesday, while April U.S. jobs data is scheduled for Friday. The U.S. will also report its first-quarter gross domestic product (GDP) data, and the PCE price index this week. These datapoints will be crucial to gauge the Fed’s rate outlook, as it has adopted a wait-and-see approach amid global trade uncertainty. Copper prices were largely muted as investors sought clarity on U.S.-China tariff talks. China’s policymakers have vowed to support businesses and workers hit by steep U.S. tariffs, but refrained from announcing fresh stimulus measures. Benchmark copper futures on the London Metal Exchange were unchanged at $9,392.20 a ton, while copper futures expiring in May lost 0.8% to $4.8620 a pound. With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Unsure where to invest next? Get access to our proven portfolios and discover high-potential opportunities.
 
In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.
 
 With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies. 