U.Today - Robert Kiyosaki, a famous investor and financial education advocate also known for his popular book “Rich Dad Poor Dad,” has addressed the cryptocurrency community with a new Bitcoin message in light of the recent events that threaten to give both the U.S. and Japanese economies a hard blow.  It also revised plans to reduce production in the U.S., including halting production of the Rogue SUV in Japan for a period. Nissan is also canceling its plans to build two electric sedans in the U.S. According to Reuters, Toyota cancelled production at two U.S. plants for two weeks due to anticipated sales drops. Besides, Honda and Nissan have officially ended negotiations about merging.  Namely, he expects massive unemployment and crash of many towns dependent upon Japanese cars” coming to the US. He says that local US car-makers, such as Ford, GM, etc., “may boom…. If they can gear up fast enough.” He is warning the U.S. population: “As pilots say, strap in tight and prepare for crash.” Kiyosaki believes that the current trade wars ignited by Donald Trump are dangerous and may lead to actual military conflicts in the future, mentioning that he himself took part in the Vietnam war twice and cursing any war as “human insanity at its worse.” In any case, he believes that when it comes to the economic side of the current or any future market turmoil “caused by greed, insanity, and fear,” “gold, silver, and Bitcoin still your defense.” This article was originally published on U.Today With GM making headlines, savvy investors are asking: Is it truly valued fairly? In a market full of overpriced darlings, identifying true value can be challenging. InvestingPro's advanced AI algorithms have analyzed GM alongside thousands of other stocks to uncover hidden gems. These undervalued stocks, potentially including GM, could offer substantial returns as the market corrects. In 2024 alone, our AI identified several undervalued stocks that later surged by 30 or more. Is GM poised for similar growth? Don't miss the opportunity to find out. 