A look at the day ahead in European and global markets from Rocky Swift U.S. President Donald Trump unexpectedly gate-crashed tariff talks with Japan, and markets breathed a sigh of relief that it wasn’t a disaster. Japan was the first major trading partner to negotiate directly with the United States, a test case for a reported 70-plus nations seeking better terms on sweeping tariffs Trump announced and then abruptly tabled this month. Trump declared "big progress" in the talks he joined with lead Japanese negotiator Ryosei Akazawa, who gave few details in his own readout to reporters just before the Nikkei started trading in Tokyo, although he said foreign exchange had not been discussed in Washington. Nasdaq futures rose 0.6%, pointing to a recovery from Wednesday’s 3% slide, while EUROSTOXX 50 futures dropped 0.3%, signalling a third-straight decline in the broad European gauge. The U.S. dollar edged higher against the euro and yen after the U.S. and Japan trade talks, but was still on course for a fourth-straight weekly decline. Safe-haven demand pushed gold to a new all-time high of $3,357.40 per ounce in Asia trading. U.S. Treasuries, whose status as a defensive asset has been badly shaken of late, held steady in Tokyo trading, with yields little changed.  In Frankfurt today, the European Central Bank is expected to cut interest rates for the seventh time in a year to prop up an economy that has become all the more unsteady in the face of Trump’s tariffs. In a relatively light earnings day ahead of Easter Weekend, British supermarket chain  Sainsbury  (LON:SBRY)’s will report annual results, with attention on whether it will follow industry leader Tesco (OTC:TSCDY) in forecasting lower profits this year.  Chip stocks will be in the spotlight again after a brutal session on Wednesday, in the wake of a warning from ASML (AS:ASML) as investors parse through the earnings forecast from industry bellwether TSMC to gauge the health of the sector. In the U.S.,  American Express  (NYSE:AXP), Blackstone (NYSE:BX), and Truist Financial (NYSE:TFC), will report first quarter results, after a string of relatively strong showings among American financial companies that have bucked the dour trend on Wall Street. Key developments that could influence markets on Thursday: -- Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia issues Manufacturing Business Outlook Survey for April. -- IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva delivers remarks on the global economy. -- ECB holds monetary policy meeting in Frankfurt, followed by briefing by ECB President Christine Lagarde.  Trying to keep up with the latest tariff news? Our new daily news digest offers a rundown of the top market-moving headlines impacting global trade. Sign up for Tariff Watch here.    With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Sure, there are always opportunities in the stock market – but finding them feels more difficult now than a year ago.

Unsure where to invest next? One of the best ways to discover new high-potential opportunities is to look at the top performing portfolios this year.

ProPicks AI offers 6 model portfolios from Investing.com which identify the best stocks for investors to buy right now. For example, ProPicks AI found 9 overlooked stocks that jumped over 25% this year alone.

The new stocks that made the monthly cut could yield enormous returns in the coming years.

Is TSCO one of them? 