NEW YORK - Integra Resources Corp. (NYSE:ITRG) reported fourth quarter earnings and revenue on Thursday that were largely in line with analyst expectations, as the company transitioned to gold producer status following its acquisition of the Florida Canyon mine. The company’s shares edged down -1.4% in after-hours trading following the earnings release. The precious metals miner posted adjusted earnings of $0.02 per share on revenue of $30.4 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2024. This marked Integra’s first quarterly report as a gold producer after completing the acquisition of Florida Canyon Gold Inc. in November. From November 8 to December 31, Integra produced 10,984 ounces of gold at Florida Canyon and sold 11,382 ounces at an average realized price of $2,643 per ounce. Cash costs were $1,884 per ounce sold, while all-in sustaining costs came in at $2,103 per ounce. "2024 marked a transformational year for Integra as the Company officially transitioned from developer to gold producer status with the acquisition of Florida Canyon," said George Salamis, President and CEO of Integra. "We are pleased to report inaugural earnings results as a producing company and demonstrating the capabilities of Florida Canyon to generate cash flow to support the advancement of our key development projects." For the full year 2024, Florida Canyon produced a record 72,229 ounces of gold, exceeding previously stated guidance. Integra ended the year with a cash balance of $52.2 million and working capital of $64.4 million. This article was generated with the support of AI and reviewed by an editor. For more information see our T&C. Don't miss out on the next big opportunity! Stay ahead of the curve with ProPicks AI – 6 model portfolios fueled by AI stock picks with a stellar performance this year...

In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.

With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech Stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies.

So if ITGR is on your watchlist, it could be very wise to know whether or not it made the ProPicks AI lists. 