Investing.com - U.S. stock futures have bounced Thursday after sharp losses the prior session on growing optimism that tariff deals can be reached with the U.S.’s main trading partners. The European Central Bank is expected to cut interest rates, while the world’s largest chipmaker posted strong quarterly results. U.S. stock futures rose Thursday, with Wall Street bouncing after the previous session’s sharp selloff, driven by hefty losses from AI darling Nvidia (NASDAQ:NVDA). At 04:20 ET (08:20 GMT), the S&P 500 futures traded 52 points, or 1%, higher Nasdaq 100 futures had risen by 210 points, or 1.2%, and Dow futures had gained 340 points, or 0.9%. The main equity indices closed with significant losses Wednesday, driven by tech weakness after chipmaking giant Nvidia disclosed a quarterly charge of about $5.5 billion tied to new U.S. export controls. The major U.S. indexes are all heading for a weekly decline, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite ending Wednesday’s session around 19% off its closing high, bringing it closer to bear market territory. However, sentiment has improved Thursday, ahead of the Good Friday holiday, on raised optimism that there could be negotiated settlements between the U.S. and its major trading partners over tariffs, avoiding an all-out global trade war. There are more corporate earnings to digest, including from  American Express  (NYSE:AXP), Blackstone (NYSE:BX) and Truist Financial (NYSE:TFC), while the economic data slate includes the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s Manufacturing Business Outlook Survey for April, as well as weekly jobless claims and a string of housing numbers. Sentiment has been hit hard since U.S. President Donald Trump announced sweeping “reciprocal” tariffs at the start of this month, with investors concerned about the impact of these duties on global growth. However, the clouds may be parting, with Trump’s surprise tariff exemption against smartphone and PC imports over the weekend, and now the president has declared "big progress" in negotiations with Japan in Washington. Japan was the first major trading partner to negotiate directly with the United States, and could be seen as a test case for the many countries reportedly seeking better terms on these U.S. tariffs. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has indicated that she wants “to give negotiations a chance”, while Bloomberg reported on Wednesday that China is open to beginning trade talks with the Trump administration, but is demanding that the White House show more respect and stem disparaging remarks about its cabinet members. The European Central Bank holds a policy-setting meeting later Thursday, and is widely expected to cut interest rates for the seventh time in a year, supporting an economy that was struggling even before the expected hit from U.S. tariffs.  The central bank has estimated that growth across the 20 countries that share the euro currency could fall by a half a percentage point this year if tariffs are imposed, erasing about half the bloc’s expected expansion. At the same time, inflation data released on Wednesday confirmed eurozone consumer prices rose 2.2% on an annual basis in March, only marginally above the central bank’s medium-term target, and heading lower. U.S. tariffs on European goods, coupled with a rising euro and falling energy prices have raised concerns over growth and disinflation in the near term, according to analysts at ING, in a note. These developments leave the ECB with little choice but to continue its easing cycle, with ING describing the anticipated move as an “insurance cut” — one that carries little risk but helps shore up market confidence.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing (NYSE:TSM), the world’s largest contract chipmaker, posted a 60% surge in first-quarter net profit, and projected higher revenue for the upcoming quarter on strong demand for AI chips. TSMC’s high-performance computing division which encompasses artificial intelligence and 5G applications drove sales in the quarter, increasing 7% since the last quarter to account for 59% of total revenue. The company also expects second-quarter revenue to be between $28.4 billion and $29.2 billion, representing a 13% sequential increase or a 38% year-on-year jump at the midpoint. Still, in its earnings call, TSMC noted "there are uncertainties and risks from the potential impact of tariff policies," but said it has not seen any change in its customers’ behaviour so far. "We continue to observe robust AI-related demand from our customers throughout 2025,” said CEO C. C. Wei. Oil prices rose Thursday, on course for weekly gains, driven by supply disruption concerns after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Iran’s oil exports. At 04:20 ET, Brent futures climbed 0.8% to $66.38 a barrel, and U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures rose 1% to $63.10 a barrel. Both benchmarks closed at their highest levels for two weeks on Wednesday, and are on track for their first weekly rise in three.  President Donald Trump’s administration escalated its sanctions against Iran’s oil sector by targeting Chinese entities, including a refinery in Shandong province. Elsewhere, Bitcoin gained ground as markets responded positively to signs of possible tariff negotiations with major U.S. trading partners, and spot gold posted a new record high, climbing above the $3,300 an ounce barrier, as investors sought a refuge from the turbulence surrounding the global trade tensions.     Don't miss out on the next big opportunity! Stay ahead of the curve with ProPicks AI – 6 model portfolios fueled by AI stock picks with a stellar performance this year...

In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.

With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech Stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies.

So if NVDA is on your watchlist, it could be very wise to know whether or not it made the ProPicks AI lists. 