Investing.com -- Gold and silver miners' stocks are currently trading at an average discount of 24% to spot prices, according to Berenberg analysts. They predict this gap is likely to decrease in the future. Berenberg notes that a valuation difference between gold equities and gold spot prices has been a significant feature of the current bull market. The analysts forecast that gold will emerge as the top commodity amidst high macroeconomic uncertainty, which will lead to a rise in gold stocks. They believe the market will favor companies that can generate strong cash flows and provide returns to shareholders. Among the large miners expected to benefit are Endeavour Mining, which trades at a 32% discount to spot prices, Wheaton Precious Metals (NYSE:WPM) at a 27% discount, and  Fresnillo  (LON:FRES) at a 25% discount. In related news, gold futures have rebounded above the $3,000 a troy ounce mark, partially recovering from significant sell-offs in the prior two sessions. Currently, futures are up 1.5% at $3,018.90 a troy ounce. Despite this recovery, the precious metal is still 4.2% lower on the week. Analysts warn that any further downward correction will likely be temporary, as trade and tariff uncertainty continue to enhance gold's appeal. Additional support for gold prices is expected from central bank demand, as geopolitical tensions and uncertainty push them to increase their safe-haven asset holdings. This article was generated with the support of AI and reviewed by an editor. For more information see our T&C. With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Sure, there are always opportunities in the stock market – but finding them feels more difficult now than a year ago.

Unsure where to invest next? One of the best ways to discover new high-potential opportunities is to look at the top performing portfolios this year.

ProPicks AI offers 6 model portfolios from Investing.com which identify the best stocks for investors to buy right now. For example, ProPicks AI found 9 overlooked stocks that jumped over 25% this year alone.

The new stocks that made the monthly cut could yield enormous returns in the coming years.

Is FRES one of them? 