LONDON - Amundi Physical Metals plc has announced the issuance of a new tranche of ETC Securities under its Secured Precious Metal Linked ETC Securities Programme. Specifically, this marks Tranche 672 of the Amundi Physical Gold ETC, with 1,086,300 ETC Securities being issued. The ETC Securities are linked to the price of gold, providing investors with exposure to the precious metal without the need to take physical delivery. The newly issued securities will have an initial metal entitlement of 0.03968043 fine troy ounces as of the subscription trade date. The issue date for this tranche is scheduled for Thursday, March 24, 2025, with the securities having a scheduled maturity date of May 23, 2118. The total number of ETC Securities for the series will reach 57,406,859 immediately following the issue. Amundi Physical Metals plc has set the total expense ratio for these ETC Securities at 0.12% per annum. The nominal amount for each security is set at USD 5.085, with a specified interest amount of USD 0.051, representing 1% of the nominal amount. Applications for the ETC Securities’ admission to trading have been made across several exchanges, including  Euronext  (EPA:ENX) Paris, Euronext Amsterdam, the Deutsche Börse, Borsa Italiana, and the  London Stock Exchange  (LON:LSEG). Additionally, they will be admitted to trading on the International Quotation System of the Mexican Stock Exchange under private placement exemptions. Investors interested in the ETC Securities should note that they are designed to provide exposure to the gold price and are not a direct investment in physical gold. The securities are secured, limited recourse obligations of the issuer, and their value will fluctuate with the price of gold. This issuance is part of Amundi’s ongoing efforts to provide investment products that allow exposure to precious metals. The announcement is based on a press release statement from Amundi Physical Metals plc. This article was generated with the support of AI and reviewed by an editor. For more information see our T&C. AI computing powers are changing the stock market. Investing.com's ProPicks AI includes 6 winning stock portfolios chosen by our advanced AI. In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. Which stock will be the next to soar? 