U.Today - Mike McGlone, the senior commodity strategist at Bloomberg Intelligence, has published a post on the X social media platform to reveal an ominous prospect that Bitcoin is facing at the moment. He tweeted that Bitcoin is reversing to go toward the 200-week moving average, which may indicate a massive price decline in the future.  The chart also refers to this as a Bitcoin-to-beta correlation, which means that the world’s largest cryptocurrency’s volatility level is increasing, along with that of the S&P. As for the movement toward the 200-week moving average, this level is a key indicator signifying that BTC may potentially hit price bottoms. McGlone tweeted that as Bitcoin is moving in close tandem with the stock market, it is going through “maturation implications.” Meanwhile, as the trade war between the U.S. and China continues, the stock market continues to go down, but gold is rising in price since investors are flocking to it to park their funds in this traditional safe haven asset. Earlier this week, gold futures jumped by 3%, reaching a new all-time high of $3,350 per ounce as the global leader in AI chip-making, Nvidia (NASDAQ:NVDA), stated that it is about to lose $5 billion in total from the escalating tensions between the U.S. and China. So far, gold has surged 25% this year, fueled by the rising economic turmoil and uncertainty.  But the DOGE team likened Bitcoin not to chess but to the children’s game “Hungry, hungry hippos,” stressing that, for them, the Bitcoin market is rather driven by frenzy and not so much by strategic thinking. At press time, Bitcoin is changing hands at $84,630 per coin. This article was originally published on U.Today Before you buy stock in NVDA, consider this:

ProPicks AI are 6 easy-to-follow model portfolios created by Investing.com for building wealth by identifying winning stocks and letting them run. Over 150,000 paying members trust ProPicks to find new stocks to buy – driven by AI.

The ProPicks AI algorithm has just identified the best stocks for investors to buy now. The stocks that made the cut could produce enormous returns in the coming years.

Is NVDA one of them? 