U.Today - Mike McGlone, the senior commodity strategist at Bloomberg Intelligence, has taken to his social media account to share his take on the prospects the markets are likely to face later this year as the leading cryptocurrencies, Bitcoin and Ethereum, remain in a heavy decline. McGlone pointed out that the current slump of Bitcoin and Ethereum is indicative of the negative year that might be coming up for risk assets in the U.S.  McGlone expects a “reversion of the multidecade lows in broad commodities vs. the US stockmarket.” The stock market, he added, came to the end of 2024 “at the highest ever vs. the rest of the world,” since they were overvalued. Since McGlone believes that crypto and U.S. stocks are moving in tandem, it is possible to conclude that his vision includes a bearish scenario for cryptocurrency prices in 2025. Still, he does not explicitly say this, but he rather opposes crypto and stocks to commodities and gold, which he expects to do well this year.  On the same chart, the yellow curve, which represents gold ETF inflows, has begun to rise after a long-term decline since 2022. This may suggest that investor sentiment is turning from Bitcoin to gold at the moment. This in turn may indicate that Bitcoin’s dominance over gold as a store of value is slowing down now. This aligns with the aforementioned tweet, where McGlone says that the investor sentiment is currently shifting from risk assets to traditional ones. This article was originally published on U.Today With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Unsure where to invest next? Get access to our proven portfolios and discover high-potential opportunities.
 
In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.
 
 With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies. 