Investing.com-- Gold prices fell in Asian trade on Monday, retreating further from record highs as reports that U.S. President Donald Trump’s April 2 tariffs will be less severe than feared weighed on haven demand. A softer dollar limited gold’s losses, while broader metal prices advanced marginally. Copper was buoyed by expectations of tighter global supplies, especially in the face of U.S. tariffs and Chinese smelter closures.  Gold still remained in sight of recent peaks, as safe haven demand remained underpinned by uncertainty over the U.S. economy and Trump’s broader tariff plans.  Spot gold fell 0.2% to $3,018.51 an ounce, while gold futures expiring in May steadied at $3,049.30/oz. Spot prices hit a record high of $3,057.5/oz last week.  Losses in gold came tracking a jump in Wall Street futures, as markets bet that the economic impact of Trump’s tariffs will be less pronounced. Bloomberg and the Wall Street Journal reported on Sunday that Trump will not impose tariffs on automobiles, pharmaceuticals, semiconductors and commodities on April 2, as threatened earlier. Trump’s reciprocal tariffs on trading partners are also expected to be limited to a group of 15 countries with large trade imbalances with the U.S., limiting their broader impact. But the White House did not confirm the reports, keeping markets uncertain. Tariffs on major U.S. imports are also still expected to drive up domestic inflation and pressure economic activity.  This notion kept haven demand for gold relatively underpinned, with about a week left to Trump’s tariff deadline.  Beyond tariffs, focus also remained on ongoing peace talks over Russia and Ukraine, as well as heightened tensions in the Middle East. A slew of major U.S. economic readings- including purchasing managers index data, PCE price index data, and a revised fourth-quarter gross domestic product print- are due this week. Among other precious metals, platinum futures rose 0.3% to $981.15/oz while silver futures rose 0.7% to $33.735/oz, after both metals clocked some losses last week.  Benchmark copper futures on the London Metal Exchange rose 0.6% to $9,927.90 a ton, while May copper futures rose 0.3% to $5.1305 a pound.  The red metal was sitting on strong gains through March on cheer over more stimulus measures in top importer China, which could bolster the country’s appetite for the red metal. More recently, fears of copper supply disruptions also aided prices. Trump threatened to impose 25% tariffs on all U.S. copper imports- a move that could severely limit physical U.S. copper supplies.  Several Chinese smelters were also seen considering production cuts, a move that could reduce global supplies of refined copper. With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Unsure where to invest next? Get access to our proven portfolios and discover high-potential opportunities.
 
In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.
 
 With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies. 