U.Today - Mike McGlone, senior commodity strategist at Bloomberg Intelligence, has issued an important Bitcoin warning, commenting on its rivalry with gold on the market. The expert suggests that Bitcoin may have peaked versus gold, and now a Great Reset might be coming.  In 2024, the Bitcoin-to-gold ratio (i.e., how many ounces of gold are equal to one BTC) peaked at 40x, which implied that one Bitcoin was worth 40 times greater than one gold ounce. However, McGlone seems to believe that this might be unsustainable and is likely to reverse this year. He also mentioned the U.S. stock market-cap-to-GDP ratio – this metric hit 2.2x. Historically, the expert continued, such peaks were seen back in 1929 and 1999 before tremendous market crashes. In those years, the U.S. faced the beginning of the Great Recession and the crash of the dot-com bubble. Overall, McGlone’s tweet contains a clear warning that the stock market and Bitcoin are likely to head back to their historic averages, as he mentioned “elevated reversion risks.” This means that if, currently, Bitcoin is overvalued compared to gold, then BTC could stage a major correction.  Last week, a similar warning was made by McGlone, not only about the “digital gold” Bitcoin but about the legendary meme cryptocurrency Dogecoin. He stated that the gold-to-Bitcoin ratio closely resembled DOGE’s price action, adding that investors are likely to start withdrawing funds from DOGE and BTC and move them into gold.  That amount of BTC cost Strategy roughly $584.1 million. After this purchase, the company’s crypto holdings comprise 506,137 BTC worth approximately $33.7 billion. This article was originally published on U.Today With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Sure, there are always opportunities in the stock market – but finding them feels more difficult now than a year ago.

Unsure where to invest next? One of the best ways to discover new high-potential opportunities is to look at the top performing portfolios this year.

ProPicks AI offers 6 model portfolios from Investing.com which identify the best stocks for investors to buy right now. For example, ProPicks AI found 9 overlooked stocks that jumped over 25% this year alone.

The new stocks that made the monthly cut could yield enormous returns in the coming years.

Is MSTR one of them? 