U.Today - Mike McGlone, a senior commodity strategist at Bloomberg Intelligence, has taken to his account on the X social media platform (formerly known as Twitter) to share with the community an important “early warning” about Bitcoin. Despite BTC approaching the highest level against one of the biggest stock market indexes, there is something quite negative to be noted and taken into account, the expert believes. Previously, several times, McGlone stated that he expects the world’s largest cryptocurrency to crash, losing a zero from the recently reached $100,000 price level.  This means that the world’s leading cryptocurrency is getting cheaper against gold – BTC/XAU. Now, it is taking fewer gold ounces to buy one Bitcoin. This index peaked in 2021, according to McGlone’s chart. At the moment, Bitcoin is trading at $96,953 per coin after soaring by almost 3% from $94,670 to $97,430. Ahead of the upcoming FOMC meeting, Bitcoin went down 1.08% today. By now, it has recovered 0.6%.  The key reason for such an attitude is the fact that Bitcoin has a hard cap of only 21 million coins, and it cannot be changed. “One reason why I trust Bitcoin is there are only to ever be 21 million,” Kiyosaki tweeted. The investor revealed that he owns gold and silver miners, as well as oil wells. He explained that should the prices on these assets increase, he will just mine or drill more of them and their supply would expand. But it is impossible with Bitcoin - “I cannot do that with Bitcoin. 21 million is 21 million,” Kiyosaki stressed. This article was originally published on U.Today With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Unsure where to invest next? Get access to our proven portfolios and discover high-potential opportunities.
 
In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.
 
 With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies. 