U.Today - John D’agostino, head of Strategy at Coinbase (NASDAQ:COIN) Institutional, has paid a visit to CNBC’s Squawk Box show to share his take on what has fueled today’s Bitcoin’s brief surge above $105,000. He also revealed a very important thing about Bitcoin ETFs that has been largely overlooked since their launch.  He addressed John D’agostino with a question as to the right way of thinking about Bitcoin – whether it is “like Nasdaq” (a tech stock) or if it should be likened to gold (a store of value). For him, it was a fundamental question. Coinbase’s top executive said that it he believes, in reality, Bitcoin is neither. The last time he visited this show, he said, was April 23, prior to which Bitcoin ETF inflows were quite poor since Trump had announced the tariffs. But even during that period, he said, Bitcoin outperformed gold. However, on the same day, as he walked off the stage in CNBC, Bitcoin ETF flows “exploded.” Since that day (roughly two weeks ago), roughly $5.5 billion headed into ETFs, which dwarfed gold ETFs. During the last meeting, there were three reasons about why Bitcoin outperformed gold that D’agostino discussed: the closeness to tech stock, Bitcoin being an inflation hedge and “the catch-up-to-gold-type trade.” Today, looking at those massive Bitcoin ETF flows, he named the fourth crucial quality of Bitcoin compared to gold – scarcity. Bitcoin miners cannot produce more BTC as fast as the overwhelming demand for it is rising.  But there will be a time, he said, when this is going to change, expecting Bitcoin ETF inflows to explode on an even larger scale than now. This article was originally published on U.Today Don't miss out on the next big opportunity! Stay ahead of the curve with ProPicks AI – 6 model portfolios fueled by AI stock picks with a stellar performance this year...

In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.

With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech Stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies.

So if COIN is on your watchlist, it could be very wise to know whether or not it made the ProPicks AI lists. 