U.Today - Mike McGlone, the senior commodity strategist at Bloomberg Intelligence, has published two tweets, elaborating why the world’s flagship cryptocurrency, Bitcoin, may crash to the $10,000 level in the near future. McGlone likens Bitcoin to the internet bubble back in the 2000s, when the Nasdaq surged but then crashed 80%.  McGlone pointed out that in 2025, the gold price has increased by roughly 15%, while Bitcoin, the digital gold, is down by a similar percentage and is trading in the $80,000 zone currently. Gold has surged past $2,950 per ounce due to geopolitical tensions that have emerged recently, and Donald Trump’s economic policy toward Canada, Mexico, China and Europe. The Bloomberg strategist mentioned the recent biggest launch of Bitcoin ETFs in history and the U.S. president’s shift toward Bitcoin and crypto in general, which McGlone referred to as highly volatile and speculative. He seems to believe that currently the situation is close to the dot-com bubble that rose in the early 2000s and then burst, pushing the index of tech companies on the Nasdaq down 80%. In a tweet published earlier today, the expert pointed out that Bitcoin was created when the stock market bottomed out in 2009 during the mortgage market crisis, and since then, BTC “has been a leader of one of the greatest risk-asset rallies in history,” again hinting that he sees Bitcoin as a bubble that is about to burst soon. This article was originally published on U.Today With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Unsure where to invest next? Get access to our proven portfolios and discover high-potential opportunities.
 
In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.
 
 With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies. 