Investing.com-- Gold prices rushed to a record high in early Asian trading on Thursday, benefiting from heightened safe haven demand after U.S. President Donald Trump imposed sweeping trade tariffs. Trump’s tariffs, which will include universal tariffs and specific duties against at least 18 countries, stand to potentially upend global trade and also run the risk of denting U.S. and global economic growth.  This sparked a severe risk-off move in broader financial markets, pushing traders into safe havens such as gold and the Japanese yen. Gold also benefited from a decline in the dollar, although broader metal prices all retreated.  Spot gold hit a record high of $3,165.64 an ounce, while gold futures expiring in June hit a peak of $3,198.40/oz. Trump on Wednesday evening announced a 10% duty on all U.S. imports, and additional, reciprocal tariffs against major economies which will be equivalent to half of their duties on American goods. China was by far the worst hit by this move, with total tariffs on the country, since Trump’s inauguration, now coming up to 54%.  The European Union will see 20% tariffs, while Vietnam, Taiwan, Japan, and India were slapped with tariffs between 24% and 46%.  Countries with lower duties on U.S. imports were subject to lower tariffs. These include Brazil, Chile, Australia, the UK, and Colombia- all of which will be subject to 10% tariffs.  The baseline tariffs will take effect from April 5, while Trump’s reciprocal tariffs will begin on April 9. The reciprocal tariffs also do not apply to certain imports, including copper, pharmaceuticals, lumber, gold, energy, and select minerals unavailable in the U.S., the White House said.  But investors grew increasingly concerned over the economic impact of Trump’s tariffs, given that they will be borne by U.S. importers, with prices being eventually passed on to consumers. Such a scenario stands to underpin U.S. inflation, while higher input costs could also dent business activity and spark a recession.  Broader metal prices largely lagged gold, as safe haven buying appeared to be directed solely towards the bullion.  Platinum futures sank 1.1% to $996.85/oz, while silver futures fell 1.2% to $34.235/oz. Among industrial metals, U.S. copper futures slid 2.2% to $4.9200 a pound after Trump excluded the red metal from his tariffs. Expectations of a U.S. supply crunch from Trump’s tariffs had pushed U.S. copper futures to record highs. Benchmark copper futures on the London Metal Exchange rose 0.1% to $9,694.45 a ton. With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Unsure where to invest next? Get access to our proven portfolios and discover high-potential opportunities.
 
In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.
 
 With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies. 