U.Today - Fundstrat expert Tom Lee has joined the team of CNBC’s Squawk Box hosts to talk about Bitcoin and gold. The latter reached a new all-time high at the beginning of April, while BTC only began to rise this Sunday. However, while Lee is absolutely bullish on Bitcoin’s further price trajectory, the leading commodity expert of Bloomberg Intelligence, Mike McGlone, has shared a totally different view with his X followers today.  Since last Wednesday, by now, Bitcoin has demonstrated a rise of 4.56%. Lee believes that now that the deleveraging, when financial institutions were selling all they could sell, including Bitcoin, is gone from the market, BTC has high odds of catching up with gold. “There is a lot of room to catch up as a non-dollar asset,” Lee said. When Bitcoin was stuck below $85,000, gold was moving up everyday, host Joe Kernen stated. He believes that gold may easily reach $4,000 per ounce soon. That deleveraging, Lee said, had been suppressing Bitcoin, particularly on the weekends.  McGlone repeated the forecast he made earlier — he expects the world’s largest cryptocurrency to crash to the $10,000 level. He has predicted a deflationary recession, which means that the S&P 500 would collapse to 4,032, and crude oil might fall to $40 per barrel. Bitcoin, in this case, would lose one zero from $100,000 level, as McGlone said in one of his tweets published earlier this month. Corn and copper would drop to $3 per bushel/pound in this bearish recession scenario. Right now, Bitcoin is changing hands at $87,500 after printing a large green candle on an hourly chart. This article was originally published on U.Today Before you buy stock in NDAQ, consider this:

ProPicks AI are 6 easy-to-follow model portfolios created by Investing.com for building wealth by identifying winning stocks and letting them run. Over 150,000 paying members trust ProPicks to find new stocks to buy – driven by AI.

The ProPicks AI algorithm has just identified the best stocks for investors to buy now. The stocks that made the cut could produce enormous returns in the coming years.

Is NDAQ one of them? 