U.Today - Michael Saylor, a Bitcoin bull and co-founder of BTC-powered behemoth Strategy has addressed the community with a brief report about the performance shown by various assets this year, including Bitcoin. However, there was one asset that did way better than the rest and outperformed the world’s flagship cryptocurrency too. He also urged the community to keep accumulating Bitcoin, even if it is just a few Sats per buy.  The list includes its majesty Bitcoin, Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA), Strategy, Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL), Meta (NASDAQ:META), Nvidia (NASDAQ:NVDA), gold, Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT), Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN) and a few others. Saylor’s Strategy (MSTR) has outperformed them all so far with 249% growth and a huge gap between it and the rest of the stocks/commodities. The first after MSTR comes Bitcoin with 64% growth. It is followed by Tesla (60%), gold (40%) and Meta (35%). Nvidia has shown a spike of 33%, followed by Apple (19%). S&P 500, Microsoft and Amazon come close to the very end of the list — 12%, 9% and 3% up. Alphabet (NASDAQ:GOOGL) Inc Class C (Google’s parent company), GOOG, has so far dropped 2% this year. According to a slightly earlier tweet of Saylor, since Strategy adopted the Bitcoin standard in August 2020, MSTR has seen staggering 3,000% growth. Gold set two new all-time highs last month, reaching $3,500 after the second massive surge. The first April price peak was slightly above the $3,100 level.  “Always ₿e Stacking,” he tweeted, spelling the “B” with four vertical strokes — the B transformed this way symbolizes Bitcoin. To set an example, Strategy has been stacking Bitcoin continuously since August 2020. The most recent BTC purchase made by the company sent ripples through the cryptocurrency market. On Monday, Saylor announced that his company had made a gargantuan acquisition of 15,355 BTC worth $1.42 billion. Besides, according to the Q1, 2025 results published this week, it plans to raise a mind-boggling $42 billion through equities to accumulate even more Bitcoin than it holds now — 553,555 BTC. This article was originally published on U.Today ProPicks AI are 6 model portfolios created by Investing.com which identify the best stocks for investors to buy now. The stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Is MSFT one of them? 