Investing.com -- Cash attracted the strongest investor interest in the week to May 7, with money market funds pulling in $51.9 billion, the largest weekly inflow in over two months, according to Bank of America. Bonds followed with $14.1 billion, while stocks drew a modest $2.3 billion. Flows into crypto reached $1.3 billion, marking the most robust four-week trend in three months. Meanwhile, gold saw $500 million in outflows, continuing a two-week retreat from precious metals. Investors sold U.S. equities during the week, with total outflows of $9.3 billion, marking the fourth consecutive week of redemptions. Over the past four weeks, U.S. stock funds have lost $24.8 billion, the most since May 2023. In contrast, international equities attracted $7 billion, led by $4.2 billion into European stocks. By sector, Technology posted its largest outflow in 11 weeks at $1.2 billion. According to BofA strategists led by Michael Hartnett, over the past five years, $2.5 trillion has flowed into U.S. assets, including $1.3 trillion into U.S. equities alone. Despite recent selling, there’s little evidence of widespread dumping of American assets, but “just a small reallocation of U.S. stocks from 64% of global equity market cap to say 60%...would have a big positive impact on Rest-of-World,” Hartnett said. Hartnett’s team cautioned that equities have rallied ahead of anticipated second-quarter trade deals and tariff reductions, and that optimism may have peaked. “We expect ‘buy the expectation, sell the fact,’” they wrote, adding that stocks could fade into the trade announcements. The bank continues to favor international over U.S. exposure and remains cautious on the dollar. Regionally, U.S. equities extended their outflow streak to four weeks, while Japan and Europe both logged a fourth straight week of inflows, at $100 million and $4.2 billion respectively. Emerging market stocks saw $300 million in outflows. In fixed income, investment-grade bonds recorded a second week of inflows at $5.5 billion. Treasury funds saw $3.6 billion in fresh allocations, and municipal bonds posted a second straight week of $1.5 billion in inflows. High-yield and emerging market debt each attracted moderate inflows, reflecting broad-based support across credit markets AI computing powers are changing the stock market. Investing.com's ProPicks AI includes 6 winning stock portfolios chosen by our advanced AI. In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. Which stock will be the next to soar? 