Investing.com-- Gold prices rose to a new fresh high Thursday as soft inflation print in the U.S. supported interest rate cut bets, while President Donald Trump’s fresh tariff threats kept bullion’s safe-haven appeal intact. Spot Gold rose 1.2% to $2,970.18 per ounce by 11:03 ET (15:03 GMT). The U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI) increased by 0.2% in February, leading to an annual rise of 2.8%, slightly below the anticipated 2.9% and down from January’s 3.0% gain.  This moderation in inflation has reinforced expectations that the Federal Reserve may consider cutting interest rates in the near future. Markets are currently pricing in three rate cuts this year, with the first cut of 2025 in June, according to the Fedwatch tool. The prospect of lower interest rates typically diminishes the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets like gold, making them more attractive to investors. The Fed is scheduled to meet on March 18-19 to decide on interest rates.  Ongoing uncertainties surrounding U.S. trade policies have further bolstered gold’s appeal as a safe-haven asset.  Trump on Wednesday threatened additional tariffs on European Union (EU) goods if the EU proceeded with its planned counter-tariffs on U.S. products.  This escalation came shortly after the U.S. implemented a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum imports, a move that has strained relations with key trading partners.  Canada imposed retaliatory tariffs on $21 billion worth of U.S. imports, including steel and aluminum products, on top of the 25% tariffs already in place. The US Dollar Index was largely unchanged in Asia hours, but hovered near a four-month low touched last week, amid recession fears. Other precious metals were weaker. Platinum Futures fell 0.7% to $990.10 an ounce, while Silver Futures dipped 0.4% to $33.593 an ounce. Copper prices inched lower on Thursday as the Trump administration vowed to add copper to its trade protections. Earlier to this, Trump had signed an executive order initiating an investigation into whether copper imports threaten national security, a process that could lead to such tariffs. Benchmark Copper Futures on the London Metal Exchange inched 0.2% lower to $9,763.80 a ton, while Copper Futures expiring in April lost 0.2% to $4.8340 a pound. AI computing powers are changing the stock market. Investing.com's ProPicks AI includes 6 winning stock portfolios chosen by our advanced AI. In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. Which stock will be the next to soar? 