Investing.com - Canada’s main stock exchange finished with gains on Friday, as investors assessed the potential for more U.S. trade deals and examined disheartening unemployment data. By the 4:00 ET close, the S&P/TSX 60 index gained by 4.7 points, or 0.3%. The Toronto Stock Exchange’s S&P/TSX composite index increased by 103.7 points or 0.4%, having climbed by 0.4% on Thursday. The market’s rise has been fueled by optimism over corporate earnings and hopes that a trade agreement between the U.S. and Britain may be harbinger of easing global trade tensions. An ongoing spat with the U.S. over trade has threatened to cast a pall over Canada’s growth prospects, with the Bank of Canada flagging that the uncertainty could dent the country’s financial stability and make it harder for households and businesses to pay off debts. In individual stocks,   Canadian Natural Resources   (TSX:CNQ), the nation’s biggest oil producer, posted better-than-anticipated first-quarter income, boosting shares by 5%. Communications group   BCE  (NYSE:BCE)  (TSX:BCE) also topped earnings, lifting the stock. On Friday, Statistics Canada released a report showing an unemployment rate increase of 0.2% to 6.9%, higher than the expected 0.1% increase.   CIBC   (TSX:CM)’s Ali Jaffery called the report a "turn for the worst" and said the report points to a June rate cut by the Bank of Canada. U.S. stocks tick lower U.S. stock indexes finished lower as investors looked ahead to the weekend’s trade talks between the U.S. and China. At the 4:00 ET close, the Dow dropped 119.1 points, or 0.3%, while the S&P declined by 4 points, or 0.1%, and the Nasdaq broke even. U.S. President Donald Trump on Thursday signed a framework for a trade deal with the United   Kingdom   (TADAWUL:4280), raising hopes that his administration’s chaotic trade policies could soon be settling down. Under the deal, the 10% tariff that was imposed on goods imported from the U.K, remains in place, while the U.K. agreed to lower its tariffs to 1.8% from 5.1% and provide further access to U.S. goods.  Moreover, steel and aluminum imports to the U.S. would be exempt from Trump’s 25% levy. “The deal enables the President to offer the sense of flexibility that financial markets are craving. The reaction – higher equity prices, a stronger dollar, higher Treasury yields – shows that it has had the desired effect,” ING analysts said in a note. This deal has bred optimism that it could provide the template for other agreements to come, particularly with U.S. officials set to meet their Chinese counterparts over the weekend.  “A de-escalation with China is realistically the only thing that can meaningfully move the dial on the tariff hit,” ING added. Crude gains Oil prices inched up, adding to the previous session’s gains as trade tensions eased ahead of talks between top oil consumers the U.S. and China and after the announcement of the trade deal with Britain. At 5:25 ET, Brent Oil Futures climbed 1.7% to $63.91 a barrel, and Crude Oil WTI Futures rose 1.9% to $61.05 a barrel. Both contracts settled nearly 3% higher on Thursday. Despite these gains, oil prices still remained close to four-year lows, as worries heightened economic uncertainty and its impact on crude demand remained. Gold bounces Gold prices rose on Friday, rebounding slightly from two days of sharp losses, as investors weighed the impact of the U.S.-U.K. trade deal and cautiously awaited the China trade talks. Bullion fell in early hours in Asia, but reversed course to edge higher, as analysts were skeptical about further de-escalation post the U.K. trade deal. By 5:25 ET, spot gold rose 0.6% to $3,325.12 per ounce, while gold futures expiring in June gained 0.7% to $3,330.40 an ounce. (Scott Kanowsky also contributed to this article) With 4280 making headlines, investors are asking: Is it truly valued fairly? InvestingPro's advanced AI algorithms have analyzed 4280 alongside thousands of other stocks to uncover hidden gems with massive upside. And guess what? 4280 wasn't at the top of the list. 