By Fergal Smith (Reuters) -Canada’s main stock index rose to a near three-week high on Tuesday, helped by gains for the technology and energy sectors, as some optimism took hold of a letup in the global trade war. The Toronto Stock Exchange’s S&P/TSX Composite Index ended up 297.12 points, or 1.2%, at 24,305.98, its highest closing level since April 3. Wall Street also rallied, helped by a report that U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent had said a tariff standoff with China was unsustainable, and that he expects the situation to de-escalate. "The market is going to sniff out eventually that there’s only one way this (trade war) ends - with deals," said Barry Schwartz, chief investment officer at Baskin Wealth Management. "No one wants to miss the headline when tariffs go back to 20% with China." On Monday, worries about the independence of the U.S. Federal Reserve had spooked investors. On Tuesday, the Toronto market’s technology sector rose 2.1%, with shares of e-commerce company  Shopify Inc  (NASDAQ:SHOP) adding 4.9%. Heavily weighted financials were up 2% and energy added 2.1%. The price of oil settled nearly 2% higher at $64.31 a barrel. Billionaire Carl Icahn has built an economic interest covering about 34% of Bausch Health’s shares, according to a filing, days after the pharmaceutical firm adopted a "poison pill" to ward off hostile takeovers. Shares of Bausch Health gained 10.3%. Barrick Gold (NYSE:GOLD) said it will exit the Donlin gold Project in Alaska by selling its 50% stake to billionaire John Paulson and NovaGold Resources for up to $1.1 billion.   Shares of NovaGold Resources jumped 39.2%, while Barrick’s shares ended 2.5% lower. The materials group, which includes metal miners, was the only one of 10 major sectors to lose ground, falling 1%, as the price of gold pulled back from a record high.  With B making headlines, investors are asking: Is it truly valued fairly? InvestingPro's advanced AI algorithms have analyzed B alongside thousands of other stocks to uncover hidden gems with massive upside. And guess what? B wasn't at the top of the list. 