Investing.com-- Gold prices edged higher in Asian trading on Thursday as the U.S. dollar fell to a four-month low amid signs that President Donald Trump may be open to negotiating his recently imposed steep trade tariffs. Spot Gold inched 0.1% higher to $2,921.42 per ounce, while Gold Futures expiring in April gained 0.1% to $2,929.49 an ounce by 01:15 ET (06:15 GMT). Gold prices advanced as the US Dollar Index weakened 0.2% to a four-month low following President Donald Trump’s decision to delay imposing auto tariffs on Canada and Mexico by one month.  The White House announced on Wednesday that Trump was open to considering more tariff exemptions after they took effect Tuesday. This postponement is perceived as a potential softening of his trade stance, alleviating immediate concerns over escalating trade tensions. The dollar’s decline against major currencies makes gold, priced in dollars, more attractive to investors. Additionally, gold is often viewed as a safe-haven asset during periods of economic uncertainty, and the recent trade policy adjustments have heightened its appeal. Meanwhile, market participants exercised caution ahead of the upcoming U.S. payroll data, scheduled for release on Friday.  This report is anticipated to provide insights into the Federal Reserve’s future interest rate decisions, especially in light of recent inflation data that has supported the Fed’s hawkish stance. Other precious metals were mixed. Platinum Futures slipped 1.1% to $973.76 an ounce, while Silver Futures inched 0.2% higher to $33.213 an ounce. Copper prices edged higher on Thursday to hit a three-week high as the dollar weakened. Adding to the positive sentiment, fresh economic stimulus measures from China lifted sentiment, with the country’s annual parliamentary meetings, known as the "Two Sessions," underway. At the National People’s Congress on Wednesday, China unveiled a comprehensive stimulus package aimed at bolstering economic growth amid escalating trade tensions with the U.S.  Key measures included setting an economic growth target of around 5%, increasing the budget deficit to 4% to finance consumer goods programs, and issuing 1.3 trillion yuan ($179 billion) in ultra-long special treasury bonds. Investors anticipate potential policy measures to boost infrastructure and manufacturing, key sectors for copper demand.  Benchmark Copper Futures on the London Metal Exchange rose 0.3% to $9,611.05 a ton, their highest level since mid-Feb. Copper Futures expiring in April fell 0.7% to $4.7718 a pound. AI computing powers are changing the stock market. Investing.com's ProPicks AI includes 6 winning stock portfolios chosen by our advanced AI. In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. Which stock will be the next to soar? 