’Rich Dad Poor Dad’ Author: Bitcoin to $500K-$1 Million As Hyperinflation Comes
U.Today - Robert Kiyosaki, a renowned investor and financial education advocate, also known for publishing his classic financial literacy book “Rich Dad Poor Dad,” has taken to social media to send a message to the crypto community. This message is both negative and positive. It is positive in the sense that he made an ultra-bullish Bitcoin price prediction. Kiyosaki has predicted that Bitcoin will jump to a six-to-seven-digit value.  The financial expert tweeted that on May 20, the Federal Reserve held an auction for U.S. bonds, and it failed — U.S. Treasuries were not delivered to fulfill a trade contract. As a result, Kiyosaki continues, the Fed bought $50 billion worth of its own “fake money with fake money,” per the “Rich Dad Poor Dad” author. This indicates investor distrust in U.S. debt sustainability and, since the money supply has rapidly increased, fueled inflation. “Hyperinflation is here,” Kiyosaki concluded, “millions, young and old to be wiped out financially.” However, there is also a place for good news here, Kiyosaki added. In these conditions, he expects his favorite bets — gold, silver and Bitcoin — to skyrocket in prices. He anticipates gold to go to $25,000 per ounce, silver to $70 and the digital gold, Bitcoin, to go as high as a minimum of $500,000 and a maximum of $1,000,000 per coin. He did not mention any time frame when he expects these price jumps to happen.  He believes, this will happen as the current “Marxist” financial system is about to crash; therefore, gold, silver and Bitcoin will surge in prices. He urged his X followers not to sell BTC but keep "hodling" it. He said that he was buying more Bitcoin to add to his stash. “Buy more. Do not sell,” he advised. In a tweet published earlier this week, Kiyosaki referred to Bitcoin ETFs as “toilet paper” that is just more expensive than regular toilet rolls. This article was originally published on U.Today AI computing powers are changing the stock market. Investing.com's ProPicks AI includes 6 winning stock portfolios chosen by our advanced AI. In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. Which stock will be the next to soar? 
