U.Today - Robert Kiyosaki, a renowned investor, financial education advocate and the author of the classic book on financial management “Rich Dad Poor Dad,” has addressed the community with an important message about the current market state and Bitcoin. He also shared a bullish price prediction about an asset that he considers to have similar massive potential as BTC in the future.  Back at the time when the book was published (the early 2000s), he said that “the biggest market crashes in stocks, bonds, and real estate….are about to happen in the very very near future.” For this very reason, he continued in the tweet, he has been investing in gold, silver and later on in Bitcoin.  In his tweet, the financial guru predicted that silver’s price would explode 2x by 2026 — from the current $35 per ounce to $70 over the next year. As for the coming market crash, Kiyosaki says that if it happens indeed, “odds are the Fed and Treasury will print trillions in fake dollars…. increasing M2 money supply,” and it he expects it to cause massive inflation in the near future. In a nutshell, Kiyosaki said: “I do not trust the Fed and Treasury” since they can turn on the “fake money press” any time they want. And here’s the major reason he prefers to buy Bitcoin, silver and gold: “I trust gold, silver, and Bitcoin to protect me from the coming massive inflation.” He calls U.S. dollars “fake” since the U.S. has continued to lose its purchasing power since the removal of the gold standard in 1971. This article was originally published on U.Today With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Unsure where to invest next? Get access to our proven portfolios and discover high-potential opportunities.
 
In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.
 
 With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies. 