U.Today - Mike McGlone, senior commodity strategist at Bloomberg Intelligence, has published two tweets dedicated to what is happening to Bitcoin and gold today, claiming that BTC is risking losing its “digital gold” status, as physical gold is on the rise.  The chart he shared shows that Bitcoin was first skyrocketing, fueled by “the biggest money pump in history,” meaning that institutional inflows into ETFs and what is happening now is a “hangover,” and investors are now likely to be favoring gold over Bitcoin, despite BTC recovering after a major fall last week. While Bitcoin’s rise in gradually fading away at the moment versus gold’s rising, Chinese government bonds are going down, according to the chart in the second tweet published by McGlone. Investors now seem to be opting for the traditional safe haven, which is gold, pulling out of stock indexes and Bitcoin as well. At press time, the world’s flagship cryptocurrency, Bitcoin, is changing hands at $85,030. Between Friday and Sunday, it staged a roughly 8% price surge, going up from $79,040 to the $85,430 level.  He again stated that the giant market crash he predicted 20 years ago has finally arrived, and “the corrupt and crooked US dollar is being wiped out.” Kiyosaki stated that those who are saving stocks, bonds, ETFs and mutual funds are being wiped out too by central banks. The only way out of this, he believes, is saving Bitcoin, physical gold and physical silver. This article was originally published on U.Today With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Unsure where to invest next? Get access to our proven portfolios and discover high-potential opportunities.
 
In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.
 
 With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies. 