U.Today - Robert Kiyosaki, vocal Bitcoin supporter and advocate of financial education known for his bestselling book “Rich Dad Poor Dad,” has published a tweet in which he offered his apologies to his X followers. Kiyosaki summarized the results of the poll related to Bitcoin that he published on his X account over the weekend. It looks like this outcome has disappointed him since the absolute majority of his X followers have basically ignored his tweet. To a degree, this can be likened to a silent backlash from the investment community.  He also thanked everyone for reading his books and saving gold, silver and Bitcoin. After that, he published a tweet with a question: “Poor people are poor…. Because they keep buying more and more of what they do not need….and not enough of….what they really need.” The main idea here is that they do not buy enough assets that can increase their wealth in the long term, which, according to his multiple earlier tweets, are not only gold, silver and Bitcoin, but also real estate and gold/silver mines. As a result, Kiyosaki complained, only roughly 1,000 respondents out of 73,000 liked his tweet with this question. He apologized for his failed attempt to get into communication with his X followers. Still, he promised that the next question for them is “what do rich people buy too much of…. Too much of that makes them richer and richer?”  He believes that throughout 2025, the Bitcoin price is likely to reach a minimum of $180,000, but he assumes it can also grow bigger, soaring as high as $200,000 per coin. According to his earlier tweet, Kiyosaki strongly believes that by 2035, Bitcoin will surpass $1,000,000. One of the drivers that he expects to push BTC so high is the fast development of artificial intelligence and its impact on the sphere of investment and finance. This article was originally published on U.Today With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Unsure where to invest next? Get access to our proven portfolios and discover high-potential opportunities.
 
In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.
 
 With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies. 