U.Today - Max Keiser, a former financial journalist and currently the Bitcoin advisor to El Salvador’s president Nayib Bukele, has once again reaffirmed his bullish BTC stance. Keiser posted a tweet, saying that he expects the world’s pioneer cryptocurrency to start pumping soon.  So far, the chart shows, the level of spending has reached $150 billion, with the commentary: “More was spent in 2025 than in 2024.” The X user believes that the U.S. Treasury intends to borrow a lot more: “$391 billion higher vs estimates. Total $514 Billion for Q2.” Based on all this data, “Chicken Genius” concluded: “btc likely to pump front running macro news.” Keiser added his comment when citing this tweet. It was an emoji showing 100%.  Kiyosaki referred to a book he published after the aforementioned one, called “Rich Dad’s Prophecy,” in which he predicted a giant crash hitting the global economy. Now, he also noted, massive fear of unemployment is spreading like a virus, which is making things worse for the economy. However, he pointed out that during crises, all “real assets” go on sale. Kiyosaki revealed that during the huge financial crisis of 2008-2009, he and many of his friends were able to see unique opportunities and got rich. Earlier, Kiyosaki, in his tweets, called real estate, Bitcoin, gold and silver “real assets,” as opposed to stocks, shares, ETFs, etc., even including spot Bitcoin ETFs launched in January 2024. Hypothetically, Kiyosaki assumed that when real assets go on sale, it is a great chance to buy them cheaply. He said that if Bitcoin hypothetically crashes to $300 per coin, someone will cry and someone will buy. Therefore, he wrote, it is very important to be prepared for crises to happen. It is much better than letting panic run wild. This article was originally published on U.Today With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Unsure where to invest next? Get access to our proven portfolios and discover high-potential opportunities.
 
In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.
 
 With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies. 