By Pranoy Krishna BENGALURU (Reuters) -Indian consumer inflation likely eased to a near six-year low in April after a further moderation of food price rises, keeping it below the Reserve  Bank of India  (NSE:BOI)’s 4% medium-term target for a third straight month, a Reuters poll of economists found. Intense heatwaves this summer did little to affect a robust harvest, offering much-needed relief to many Indian households which allocate a significant portion of their budgets to food. Food prices account for nearly half of the consumer price basket. The May 5-8 Reuters poll of 43 economists suggested inflation, as measured by the annual change in the consumer price index (CPI), fell to 3.27% in April from 3.34% in March. Forecasts for the inflation data ranged between 2.8% to 4.0%. Due to a government holiday on Monday, it announced that April’s CPI data would be released on Tuesday at 1030 GMT. Survey medians suggested prices rose at the slowest pace since mid-2019 last month.  "The slight decline we will see is because food inflation continues to ease on a month-on-month basis. Vegetable prices, pulses, cereals ... even fruits declined," Gaura Sengupta, chief economist at IDFC  First Bank  (NASDAQ:FRBA), said. "The fact is we are in April, and you’re entering the summer months. The expectation is seasonally you should see a pick-up in vegetable prices, but for now we’re not seeing that." A separate Reuters poll conducted last month suggested inflation would average 4.0% this fiscal year, in line with the RBI’s projection. Meanwhile, the price of gold - a prized commodity in India - rose around 5.0% in April as investors sought a safe haven from global trade tensions, offsetting the sharp slowdown in headline inflation observed over the past few months. With inflation predicted to stay subdued, the RBI has more room to cut interest rates to support a slowing economy.  Early predictions of above-average monsoon rains this year have raised expectations of stronger agricultural output and higher rural demand in a largely agriculture-dependent economy. Core inflation, which excludes volatile items such as food and energy and is a better gauge of domestic demand, was expected to have moderated to 4.0% year-on-year in April, down from the 4.1% estimated by economists in a April survey, the latest poll found.  The Indian statistics agency does not publish core inflation data. Wholesale price index-based inflation is expected to have eased to 1.76% last month, down from 2.05% in March, the survey also showed.  With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Sure, there are always opportunities in the stock market – but finding them feels more difficult now than a year ago.

Unsure where to invest next? One of the best ways to discover new high-potential opportunities is to look at the top performing portfolios this year.

ProPicks AI offers 6 model portfolios from Investing.com which identify the best stocks for investors to buy right now. For example, ProPicks AI found 9 overlooked stocks that jumped over 25% this year alone.

The new stocks that made the monthly cut could yield enormous returns in the coming years.

Is BOI one of them? 