U.Today - Prominent Bitcoiner and entrepreneur Anthony Pompliano (also frequently known as Pomp) sat down with Bo Hine, Executive Director of the US President’s Council of Advisers for Digital Assets, to talk about not only BTC and the U.S. government’s plans for it, but also about Hine’s personal view of Bitcoin and its future performance on the market. The interview took place in the White House, where Hine made several interesting statements about Bitcoin, including the plan to establish the Strategic Bitcoin Reserve.  He voiced the official opinion of the U.S. Council of Advisers for Digital Assets, and Donald Trump himself, who believes Bitcoin is a digital analogue of gold. By establishing the Strategic Bitcoin Reserve, the president’s administration wants to build a “digital Fort Knox” for BTC.  Therefore, it is important not only to use the advice of professionals in the investment market but also to consider how to protect your investments among other volatile asset classes. He also believes that blockchain technology will help revolutionize the financial and banking systems. The way humans communicate via the internet has changed drastically over the past two decades, Hine pointed out, but the financial system remains full of friction, and blockchain is going to change that radically, he believes. He added that despite the original anti-establishment ethos of Bitcoin and BTC adoption by companies like BlackRock (NYSE:BLK) now, BTC still provides what it was invented for — storing value and moving funds quickly and cheaply. This article was originally published on U.Today With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Sure, there are always opportunities in the stock market – but finding them feels more difficult now than a year ago.

Unsure where to invest next? One of the best ways to discover new high-potential opportunities is to look at the top performing portfolios this year.

ProPicks AI offers 6 model portfolios from Investing.com which identify the best stocks for investors to buy right now. For example, ProPicks AI found 9 overlooked stocks that jumped over 25% this year alone.

The new stocks that made the monthly cut could yield enormous returns in the coming years.

Is BLK one of them? 