Investing.com-- Gold prices rose Thursday, on renewed demand from investors in the wake of the recent selloff. At 10:25 ET (14:25 GMT), Spot gold rose 0.9% to $3,317.19 an ounce, while gold futures expiring in June rose 1.1% to $3,329.65/oz.  Gold had fallen from record highs this week after U.S. President Donald Trump raised the prospect of eventually reducing steep trade duties on China. But a lack of clarity on Trump’s comments, coupled with less optimistic statements from other officials, made gold’s fall short-lived.  Traders remained cautious towards the dollar and Treasuries, keeping gold and the Japanese yen as the main sources of safe haven. Spot prices remained in sight of a $3,500/oz record high hit earlier this week, as traders still remained largely biased towards bullion as a haven. This trend was furthered by a sharp drop in the dollar in recent weeks, amid heightened uncertainty over the U.S. economy and a bitter trade war between Washington and Beijing. Trump said this week that he could eventually lower his steep, 145% tariffs on China. But he said that such a move would be contingent on China coming to the negotiating table- a scenario Beijing has shown little interest in carrying out.  China retaliated with 125% tariffs against the U.S., and has shown few signs of backing down. Comments from other members of the Trump administration also undermined optimism over a U.S.-China deescalation. Treasury Scott Bessent warned that trade talks with China could be a slog, and that the U.S. would likely need to first cut tariffs before engaging with Beijing.  "Prices are still up by more than 25% so far this year, supported by market volatility and ever-changing U.S. policies. The rally has also been supported by increased flows into gold ETF holdings and central bank buying," said analysts at ING, in a note. Safe haven demand was also furthered by signs of increased friction in U.S.-brokered ceasefire discussions over Russia and Ukraine, especially as Moscow launched a deadly drone and missile attack on Kyiv on Wednesday. This came as Trump lashed out against Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy over his objection to Russia’s 2014 occupation of Crimea.  Trump’s Vice President JD Vance warned that the U.S. could exit ceasefire discussions, while several top-level U.S. officials dropped out of ceasefire talks in London this week. Other precious metals were mixed on Thursday, but were sitting on some gains against a softer dollar in recent weeks. Platinum futures rose 0.1% to $979.75/oz, while silver futures fell 0.6% to $33.365/oz. Among industrial metals, benchmark copper futures on the London Metal Exchange rose 0.2% to $9,396.45 a ton, while U.S. copper futures traded largely flat at $4.8428 a pound. (Ambar Warrick contribued to his article.) With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Unsure where to invest next? Get access to our proven portfolios and discover high-potential opportunities.
 
In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.
 
 With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies. 