U.Today - Cryptocurrency analyst and trader Ali Martinez, known on the social media network X under the name @ali_charts, has published a graph that shows a cumulative gargantuan multi-billion inflows into the crypto market spotted during the past month.  This has taken place as the world’s largest cryptocurrency, Bitcoin, has climbed and managed to recapture the $90,000 level, going up to $97,927 on May 2 last week. As early as April 1-2, the inflows equated to $8 billion, according to the Glassnode chart, while in the early days of May, they already surpassed $19 billion in total. Historically, such tremendous capital inflows have led to significant Bitcoin price peaks. However, the current $19 billion inflows are much more than the market has absorbed recently, and it has likely been driven by financial institutions.  The financial expert referred to his book “Rich Dad’s Forecast” published in the early 2000s, where he, for the first time, predicted the above-mentioned stock market crash in the near future. For this reason, he said, he has been purchasing physical gold and silver, and in recent years also Bitcoin. He admitted his strong belief that these assets will protect his capital should massive inflation arrive. Kiyosaki expects this is likely to happen since, if the market crashes, then the Federal Reserve and U.S. Treasury will print trillions of U.S. dollars, which he calls “fake money” since they are not backed by gold or anything else since 1971. He also believes that by 2026, silver will skyrocket from $35 per ounce now to at least $70. This article was originally published on U.Today With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Unsure where to invest next? Get access to our proven portfolios and discover high-potential opportunities.
 
In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.
 
 With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies. 