Investing.com-- Gold prices edged higher in Asian trading on Monday as the dollar weakened, while uncertainty surrounding U.S. trade tariffs and Russia-Ukraine peace talks supported bullion’s safe-haven appeal. Spot Gold rose 0.3% to $2,865.69 per ounce, while Gold Futures expiring in April gained 0.9% to $2,873.59 an ounce by 00:35 ET (05:35 GMT). U.S. President Donald Trump announced 10% additional tariffs on China and reaffirmed his tariff timings for 25% levies on Mexico and Canada last week. However, on Sunday, U.S. Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick said that Trump will determine the exact tariff levels on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the recent breakdown in talks between Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and U.S. President Donald Trump has diminished prospects for a Russia-Ukraine peace agreement, leading to heightened concerns over prolonged geopolitical instability. The US Dollar Index fell 0.4% in Asia hours, retreating from a two-week high. With the weaker greenback, and prospects of longer-than-expected geopolitical instability, gold maintained its safe-haven demand. Other precious metals also gained on a weaker greenback. Platinum Futures jumped 1.2% to $949.10 an ounce, while Silver Futures gained 0.7% to $31.730 an ounce. Data on Friday showed that consumer sentiment declined by 0.2% in January, marking the first decrease in nearly two years. The Atlanta Federal Reserve now projects a 1.5% annualized growth rate for the U.S. economy in the first quarter of 2025, a slowdown from the 2.3% growth in the previous quarter.  This bolstered bets for near-term rate cuts, but the PCE price index -- Fed's preferred gauge of inflation -- rose 0.3% in January, maintaining the same rate of increase as in December. This slightly positive inflation data reinforced the Fed’s view that rates might need to remain higher for longer. Copper prices were slightly up as the dollar weakened, while strong manufacturing activity from China also added to the positive sentiment. Chinese manufacturing activity grew more than expected in February, with a private survey confirming the trend as the Caixin PMI hit a three-month high. Benchmark Copper Futures on the London Metal Exchange inched 0.3% higher to $9,985.70 a ton, while April Copper Futures ticked lower to $4.5595 a pound. With valuations skyrocketing in 2024, many investors are uneasy putting more money into stocks. Unsure where to invest next? Get access to our proven portfolios and discover high-potential opportunities.
 
In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. That's an impressive track record.
 
 With portfolios tailored for Dow stocks, S&P stocks, Tech stocks, and Mid Cap stocks, you can explore various wealth-building strategies. 