LONDON - Amundi Physical Metals plc has announced the issuance of 160,200 additional ETC Securities, under its Amundi Physical Gold ETC, marking the 663rd tranche for this series. The ETC Securities are designed to provide investors with exposure to gold prices without the need to take physical delivery of the metal. The securities are part of Amundi’s Secured Precious Metal Linked ETC Securities Programme and have been admitted to trading on several major European stock exchanges, including  Euronext  (EPA:ENX) Paris, Euronext Amsterdam, Deutsche Börse, and Borsa Italiana, as well as the main market of the  London Stock Exchange  (LON:LSEG). Applications have also been made for the ETC Securities to be admitted to trading on the International Quotation System of the Mexican Stock Exchange. Each ETC Security is backed by gold, with an initial metal entitlement as per the series issue date of 0.04 fine troy ounces, which is subject to a Total Expense Ratio (TER) of 0.12% per annum to cover operational fees. This TER is designed to gradually reduce the metal entitlement associated with each ETC Security over time. The latest tranche of ETC Securities follows the program’s conditions set forth in the Base Prospectus dated May 20, 2019, as supplemented by subsequent updates. The scheduled maturity date for these ETC Securities is May 23, 2118, providing investors with a long-term investment option linked to the performance of gold. Amundi’s Physical Gold ETC is part of a growing market for gold-backed exchange-traded commodities, offering investors a way to gain exposure to gold price movements. This issuance, as stated in the press release, aims to meet ongoing investor demand for precious metal investments. Investors should note that the value of ETC Securities can fluctuate based on gold price movements, and as with any investment, there is a risk of financial loss. This announcement is based on a press release statement from Amundi Physical Metals plc. This article was generated with the support of AI and reviewed by an editor. For more information see our T&C. AI computing powers are changing the stock market. Investing.com's ProPicks AI includes 6 winning stock portfolios chosen by our advanced AI. In 2024 alone, ProPicks AI identified 2 stocks that surged over 150%, 4 additional stocks that leaped over 30%, and 3 more that climbed over 25%. Which stock will be the next to soar? 